Auto scaling
It is region specific. All server should be in same region
Remember: 
Scaleout / scaleup : increase the no.of server
Scalein / scaledown : decrease the no. of server.

- Horizontal scaling 
means that you scale by adding more machines into your pool of resources

- Vertical scaling 
means that you scale by adding more power (CPU, RAM) to an existing machine.

- Its a logical group of ec2 instances which participate in auto scaling

Auto Scaling Components:

1. Launch Configuration:
	like instances, AMI, keypair, security group

2. Auto Scaling Group:
	group name, group size (server size min to max), vpc, subnet, health check, 

3. Scaling Policy
	matrix type (on which condition no. of server increase or decrease) , target value


- ASG (Auto Scaling Group) always try to balances instance across AZ's
- While rebalancing ASG launches new EC2 instances where there are less EC2 at present.
and then terminate the instance from the AZ's that had more instances.

** What causes Imbalance of EC2
- If we add or remove some subnet / AZ's from auto scaling group.
- if we manually request of EC2 termination from ASG (Auto Scaling Group)
- An AZ that don not have enough EC2 capacity now has enough  capacity and it is one of the 
our ASG AZ 
i.e . some might be case that one of the AZ reached max ec2 instance creation capicity.
and now we cant make an ec2 on that Az. that time imbalance of EC2 occures in ASG.


- We can attached a running ec2 instances to an ASG by using AWS console or AWS cli
if the below conditions are met.

1. instances must be running state (Not Terminated Or Stopped state)
2. AMI used to launch the EC2still exist.
3. Instance is not part of another ASG.
4. Instance is in the same AZ of the same group.
i.e. Whatever the AZ we have attached in the ASG the instance we want to add in group should be in that AZ only.
for ex. if we have total 3 az in a region and we have just attached 2 az to the ASG. and we want to add instance
which is in 3rd az. then we cant add that instance to ASG
5. if the existing EC2 instances under the ASG, plus the one to be needed. if that exceeds the max capacity of the ASG,
then, the request will fail and EC2 instance would not be added.
i.e. when we create ASG, that time we need to define max and min value of the server which will increased or decreased accordingly.
but if the max value is already exceeded and you want to add more instance that time you cant add the EC2 instance.

Also Note: even if you have reached max value of instance and ASG needs to balance the instance across the AZ's
ONLY THAT TIME  it can exceed the max value. but the condition is it can increase 1 instance or 10% of max value
whichever is greater.


** What is the impact of attached /detached instance or Deleteing ASG.
1. you can manually remove EC2 instances from ASG using AWS cli or console.
2. you can then manage the detached instance independently or attached it to another ASG
but Remember 1 instace can be attched to ONLY ONE ASG at a time.
3.  when u detached an instance you have option to decreased the ASG desired capcity.
Desired capacity  means, in an ideal state how many minimum instances will run.
supposed you have spcecified 2 and if you detachecd the instance tgen it become 1 at that time ASG will again create new instance
if you dont want to create ASG to new create instance then at the time of decreasing the instance you will get an option. 
4. when you delete an autoscaling group its parameter like max, min and desired capacity is set to zero. Hence it terminate
all the instance

- Auto scaling group has some attributes like
1. Min size
	when we create a group we can specify minimum size which is minimum no. of ec2 instance the group should always have,
2. Max size
	the maximum limit upto which auto sacling can scale ec2 instances
3.Desired capacity
	this value is decided at run time based on low o/p of env
	it changes based on scaling capacity
 We need to tell auto scaling when to add server and when to remove server we do with the help of scaling policy

*** How ELB work with Auto Scaling Group ASG
- we can attached one or more ELB (Elastic Load Balancer) to ASG.
- The ELB must be in the same region as ASG.
- once you attched ELB, any ec2 instance existing or added bt the ASG will automatically registered with ASG define in ELB
i.e as soon as we attached ELB to ASG. after that any new EC2 instance created will automatically get registered to ELB.
EC2 instance exist before attaching ELB we need to registered manually. same as if we delete ec2 instance it will deregistered from ELB 
- once you attached ELB then you do not need to register thos instances manually on the ASG define ELB
- instance and ELB must be in the same VPC.

*** Health check of EC2 instance in ASG
- ASG classifed ec2 instance in 2 status healthy or unhealthy
-  By default ASG uses EC2 status check only to determine the health status of an instance
i. by default ASG uses ec2 health check to define healthy or unhealthy.
-  When you have one or more ELB define in ASG. you can configure ASG to use BOTH the ec2 health check and ELB health check to 
determine the instance healthy or unhealthy.
- health check grace is 300sec by default.
i.e. it will wait 300 sec once the instace start for heath check
- if we set health check grace period to zero. then the instance health is checked once it is in service.
- Until the health grace period timer expires any unhealthy status reported by EC2 or ELB status check to the ASG will not be acted upon.
i.e before 300 min grace period expire if ASG get status fromec2 or ELB health check it will not be considered.,

*** After Grace period expires, ASG would consider an instance unhealthy in any of the following cases.
1. EC2 status check report to ASG an instance state other than running
i.e  apart from running instance any state ASG considered as unhealthy.
2. if you have configured ELB health check to be used by ASG, then if ELB report the instance "Out of Service"
3. In case of termination of unhealthy instance, first it will terminate unhealtht instance then it will create new instance.
Where as in rebalancing first it create new instance then it terminate the instance.
4. Elastic IP and EBS volume gets detached from the terminated instance. you need to manually attached to the new instance   


*** In four situation ASG sneds a SNS email notification.
1. An instance is launched
2. An instance is terminated
3. An instance fails to launch
4. An instance fails to terminsated

Merging ASG
means if you have 3 Az's and one ASG1 using in az-1
and another ASG2 using az-2 and az-3.
Now you will add az-2 and az-3 to ASG. so now ASG become az-1, az-2, az-3
and ASG2 become az-2, az-3
after that you will delete ASG2. this way you can merge ASG.

- It can only be done from CLI. you can not do it from AWS console.
- Scale-out means launching more ec2 instance
- Scale-in means terminating one or more ec2 instance by scaling policy

*** Aws ec2 instance sends matrics to cloudwatch about thhe ASG instance
- basic monitoring is (every 300 sec ) enabled by default & free of cost)
- detailed monitoring is (every 60 sec) and chargeble.  
- when launch configuration is done by aws cli then detailed monitoring is enabled by default.


*** Standby state
when we want to do some certain changs on server or patching etc. in ASG then you cant do it 
you need to put some instance in standby

what are the points for standby state
-you can manually move ans instance from ASG and put in standby state
- instance in standby state are still manged by autoscaling.
-  instance in standby state are charged as normal , inservice instance
-  they do not count towards available ec2 instance for workload or app use
- ASG does not perform health check on instance in standby state 

-- *** Scaling Policy
- defines how much you want to define to scale based on defined conditioned 
- Auto scaling uses alarm and polices to determine scaling 
- in simple and step scaling policy a adjustment cant change the capacity of the group above the max size and min size group.
i.e. if we set max size 10 and min size 2 then even if the load goes high after adding 10 instance it will not add more than 10.
same as if load goes down it will keep deleteing the instances but it will keep minimum 2 instances in ASG
1. Manual Policy 
In this if you set "Keep scaling policy as it is" then if Desired value if it set to 4 then all the value will be same as desired policy. If you want to
change then u need to do it manually.
for.eg. If u set the desired value 4 then max. server value will also be 4 and min server value will also be 4. 
Even if the server load increase or decrease.

2. Dynamic Policy
It devided into 3 types
a. Target Tracking Policy
In this you need to define some valule. ASG will try to maintain remain close to this value as much he can.
for ex. if you set cpu utilisation to 70%. Then ASG group will maintain 70% load accross the all server.
To maintain cpu utilisation ASG will scale-out or scale-in and always try to close to this value.

b. Simple Scaling Policy
In this we can define the threshold value. if this value exceeded then it will create no.of instance as mentioned.
for ex. if we define threshold value 75%. once this value exceeded it will create the instance. if we have mentioned that
once this value above 75% then create 2 instance. then 2 instance will get created.

Here on two values we need to concentrate
1. Cooldown Period
2. Warm-up period
In both the value ASG need to wait.
Cooldown means -  Once threshold value reached ASG create instance, after creating the instance ASG wait till value mentioned
in cooldown period. it will check newly created instance working properly, managing the load or not.
Meanwhile whatever alarm will received that will ignored. even if the value of theshold is still exceeded then also it will not create 
new instance. Once cooldown period exceeded after that if ASG will receive alarm or threshold value is above 75% then it will create new instance.

Warm-up period means once after threshold value exceeded, new instance will spinup. and ASG will wait till value mentioned in warmup period to start the instance.
for ex:suppose we have mentioned 300 sec in warm up period , then once ASG created new instance it will wait 300 sec to start the instance     


c. Step Scaling Policy
Here you will see "Add step" button 
here we can decide step by step. i.e. if my load in between 40-50% then create one instance 
if my load 51 to 60% then create 2 instance 
if load 61- 70% then create 2 more instance
similarly for scale in we can define if load goes 50 -605 then remove 1 instance
if load comes down to 40 -50 then remove 1 instance
if load comes to 30-40% then remove 2 instances.

In step scaling policy cooldown period is not use.

- Launch Configuration
You can not edit the launch configuration. Either you can delete or copy but can't edit once created.
it is a template which is used by auto scaling group for adding new instances to the group
This Launch configuration  have some details like
1. AMI
SO, which AMI will use while launching new instance
2. Security group
3. EBS size and type
4. IAM role
5.private key

- Auto Scaling group
Once we done with Launch Configuration, then we need to configure Auto Scaling Groups.
- Autoscaling group uses this launch configuration to launch the ec2 instance into the group.  
In ASG there are 5 stpes 
a. configure Auto Scaling Group Details
b. Configure Scaling Policies
c. Configure Notifications
d. Configire Tages
e. Review

 ASG have some details like
a. configure Auto Scaling Group Details
1. Group Name:
Give ASG group name 
2. Launch Configuration:
Here it will show the name of launch configuration which we have created earlier.
3. Group Size:
Here we will give the no. of instance with which ASG will start.
i.e. if we give 2 here. then ASG will spinup 2 instance in the begining.
4. Network:
Here we need to decide on which VPC ASG will create, you can select default or if you want to create ASG
in new VPC then give the custom vpc name here.
5.  subnet:
here we heave to select subnet with AZ's on which our ec2 will be created.

b. Configure Scaling Policies
here you will see 2 options
1. Keep this group as it's initial size  (this means Manual Scaling)
in this whaterver Group size you mentioned in "configure Auto Scaling Group Details" it will remin as it is. i.e even if load goes high it will not ancrease 
server automatically also if server load goes down it will not minimize the server. we need to do it manually.

2. Use scaling Policies to adjust the capacity of this group.  (Dynamic Scaling)
-in this it will ask scale between no. of server. here we need to mentioned min instance and max instance in between ASG will scale-out and scale-in
- Scale Group size
in this we need to mentioned below details
- Name: here we need to specify group name.
- Metric Type: here we need to mentioned in which scenario instance will scale-out or scale in
there are 4 option we will have 
1. Application Load Balancer Request Count Per Target
When load balance notifies that lot of load coming on every server that time it will scale-out(increase) the server
2. Average CPU uitilisation
When CPU utilisation get increase
3. Average Network IN (Bytes)
if server n/w input greater than mentioned value.
4.Average Network Out(Bytes)
if server n/w out is greater than mentioned value.
