- What is cloud ?
It is a sharing of resources from remote location via internet on pay as you go model.

Charecteristics of cloud
1. On demand self service
2. Broad N/W Access
3. Scalability 
4. Resource Pooling
5. Measured Services  --- Stats memory utilisation, cpu utilisation etc.

Services in Cloud

AWS provides 3 type of services
1. IAAS - (Infrastructure As A Service)
2. PAAS- (Platform As A Service)
3. SAAS- (Software As A Service)


Below 9 are  the Layers
------------------------
Application 
------------------------
Data
------------------------
Runtime
------------------------
Middleware
------------------------
O.S
------------------------
Virtualisation
------------------------
Server
------------------------
Storage
------------------------
Network
------------------------

1. IAAS
It contains  Network, Storage, Server, Virtualisation, O.S these service.
i.e. We are using these services from cloud
that means we are using serves from cloud and we are installing or managing our software and app
Ex: ec2, 
Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
Amazon Elastic Block Store
AutoScaling
Elastic Load Balancing
Amazon Redshift
IaaS examples: AWS EC2, Rackspace, Google Compute Engine (GCE), Digital Ocean, Magento 1 Enterprise Edition*.

2. PAAS
it contains all the IAAS service with two more service like Middleware & Runtime
Here we are using servers and some manegd platform by cloud 
ex: lambda, Beanstalk
PaaS examples: 
AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Heroku, Windows Azure (mostly used as PaaS), Force.com, 
OpenShift, Apache Stratos, Magento Commerce Cloud.

3. SAAS
It contains all the layers form Network to Application
i.e  we are using all the service from cloud

SaaS examples: 
BigCommerce, Google Apps, Salesforce, Dropbox, MailChimp, ZenDesk, DocuSign, Slack, Hubspot

Infrastructure as code (IaC) 

Infrastructure as code (IaC) means to manage your IT infrastructure using configuration files.
Tools:
AWS CloudFormation
Azure Resource Manager
Google Cloud Deployment Manager
Terraform
Configuration management tools (Ansible, Saltstack, Chef, Puppet)


Deployment Model Of Cloud

It consist of 3 type
1. Public Cloud
This cloud is publically available, i.e any one can create a infrasturcture in these cloud
ex. aws, azure, google private cloud etc 

2. Private Cloud
This is also called enterprise cloud. which means some enterprise or any company which has created a cloud for its own employee or branch
its not available apart from that company

3. Hybrid Cloud
which consist of both private and public cloud
which means if you have created private cloud and you have somthing on public cloud then using hybrid cloud you can merge these cloud and 3rd person can access both 
pri are and public in single connection


Virtualisation

You can virtualize  Network, Storage, Server  using hypervisor 
there are some company who provides hypervioser
Microsoft hyperviosr name is HyperV
AWS uses Ctrix 
Vmware uses VsphereESXi

*** Configuration Management Tools

Ansible (written in python)
Saltstack (Written in python)
Chef (Written in Ruby)
Puppet (Written in Ruby)
CFEngine (Written in C)

*** Version Control Tools
Git
SVN
Mercurial

Repositories OR Git Services
Gogs
GitLab
GitHub
BitBucket
Google Cloud Source Repositories
AWS CodeCommit

*** Project Management and Bug Tracking Tools
Jira
Active Collab

*** Build Tool
Apache Ant
APache Maven
Gradle
Hudson

*** CI/CD Tools
Jenkins
Travis CI
Bamboo
Codeship
CircleCI

*** Container Management Tools
Docker
Kubernetes
Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS)
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)


Good hands-on knowledge of Source Code Management (Version Control System) tools like Git and Subversion
Proficient in developing Continuous Integration/ Delivery pipelines
Experience with automation/ integration tools like Jenkins
Knowledge of major cloud service providers, like AWS, Azure etc.
Good understanding of Infrastructure as Code (Programmable Infrastructure), and how you can achieve that by using tools like Puppet, Chef, Ansible etc.
Hands-on knowledge of software containerization platforms like Docker and container orchestration tools like Kubernetes and Docker Swarm
https://www.kickresume.com/en/help-center/lead-devops-engineer-resume-sample/
