AWS CLoudFront

amazon cloudfront is a web service that gives business and web application developers an easy and cost effective way 
to distribute content with LOW LATENCY and high data transfer speed.


What is Edge Location and Regional Edge Cache 

- CloudFront is a global service (not created in region)
- Cloudfornt is a web service that speed up distribution of static and dynamic web content.
  like html,css,js and image file to your users.
- Cloudfront delivers your content through a worldwide network of data centers called Edge Locations.
- When user request content that you are serving with cloudfront, the user is routed (via DNS) to the
  edge location that provides the lowest latency, so that content is delivered with the best possible
  performance..
- if the content content is already in the edge location with lowest latency cloudfront deleivers it 
  immediately 
- if not, then cloudfront retrives it from an Origin server, where we have host the server.
- Cloudfront also keeps persistence connection with origin server so files are fetched from the origin 
  as quickly as possible.

You can access CloudFront (CF) from following ways.
1. aws mgmt console
2. aws SDKs
3. CloudFront API
4. Aws command line interface

CloudFront Edge Location
- Edge Locations are not tied with AZ's or regions
- Amzon cloudfront has 216 point of presence (205 edge location and 11 Regional Edge Location)
  in 84 cities across 42 countries.

Regional Edge Cache
generally these 11 regional edge cache are present in city where amazon regions are present
like mumbai, ohio etc 
Normally use of this Regional Edge cache is, when edge location is serving the data so when it deletes the cache 
(defult value is 24hrs) it sends less popular data to this regional edge cache. so when after removing and sending 
the data if any user request for this data it takes this data from regional edge cache instead of origin server.

Regional Edge Cache is also cache memory and also work as a edge location but the cache value is higher than 
edge location
In short when the data is less popular then edge location will send to regional edge location.
If the regional edge cache also dont have that data (or deleted the cache) then edge location will requst to origin server.

- Regional edge cache working as a alternative of origin to reduce the burden of origin.

Working
 1. user request a page
 2. request goes to DNS(route53)
 3. DNS forward req. to nearest edge location (base on latency)
 4. in the edge location CF check its cache for the requested files
 5. IF the files present in the cache the returns to the requested user.
 6. if files not present in cache then edge servers go to nearest regional edge cache to fetch the object.
 6. Regional edge cache has feature parity with edge location.
 for ex: a cache invalidation request removes an object from both edge cache and regional edge cache before its expire.
 Invalidation Request means if user request for some deletion req. then it will get remove from both.
 7. the next time a viewer request the object, CF returns to the ORIGIN to fetch the latest version of object.
 
 NOTE:
 - proxy method PUT/POST/PATCH/OPTIONS/DELETE go directly to the origin from edge location and do not proxy through 
   regional edge cache
 - Dynamic content as determine at request time does not flow through the regional edge cache but goes directly to origin.

























https://app.resumegenius.com/resume-builder/start 
select windsor theme
