EC2

AMI -- 
A template for creation of ec2 instance
it is an image of a server including a OS and often additional software

1. what is root disc type in ec2 ?
 2 types of root device 
A. Elastic block storage (EBS)
Used to store persist data
B. Instance store
used for testing purpose and data does not store persist data. if we start / stop server  data will be lost.
These type of server only used for testing purpose

2. how to take backup of ec2 machine
using snapshot (taking snapshot of volumes)

3. how to restore backup 
restoration of volume u can create volume of your machine or you can create AMI

4. When we can create AMI
if you want to scale our infra

5. Can we scale ec2
using vertically or horizontally
veritically means increse the resources of an instance
horizontally means increase no of instances 

6. what is automation tool we used for ec2
AWS API tool used for aws automation
we can use these api using muiltiple tools like chef, puppet,ansible or terafarm

7. What if i want to maintain state of my infra
using terafarm

8. How to secure your server 
using Security Group
using ACL

9. how many volume types are there
there are 5 type of volumes
general purpose ssd (gp2)
provision iops 
cold hdd
throughput optimise HDD
Magnetic

10. ec2 instance type
***  General Purpose ------		Balanced CPU and memory (As name suggestes used for general purpose)

provide a balance of compute, memory and networking resources, and can be used for a variety of diverse workloads. 
These instances are ideal for applications that use these resources in equal proportions such as web servers and code repositories. 
ex. web servers, containerized microservices, caching fleets, and distributed data stores, as well as development environments

A, M, T  serise instance are General Purpose Instances
Instance Available in four sizes 
1. Nano
2. Small
3. Medium
4. Large

A Series contain Medium and Large instance only
These instances are well suited for below application
1- webserver
2- containerized micro service

M Series contain Large instance only
these contains m4 & m5 containers
M4
-For heavy work load
-Instance Storage are EBS only

M5
Balance cpu, memory and networking resource for broad  range of application
It higher than M4
Instance Stroge are EBS & NVM SSD

T series contain all four types of instances.
These type of instances used in
1- create website & web application 
2- code  repositories
3 - development, build or test server
 
***  Compute Optimized --------	When we reuire more CPU than RAM 
This type contains 'C' series
for c4 instances Storage EBS only
for c5 instances STorage EBS & NVM SSD

these are ideal for compute bound applications that benefit from high performance processors. 
Instances belonging to this family are well suited for batch processing workloads, media transcoding, high performance web servers,
 high performance computing (HPC), scientific modeling, dedicated gaming servers and ad server engines, machine learning inference

C5 instance can support  max 25 EBS volumes to 1 instance
C5 uses new ec2 hypervisor 


*** Memory Optimized --------	More RAM instances
Memory optimized instances are designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that process large data sets in memory.
ex.  high performance databases, distributed web scale in-memory caches, mid-size in-memory databases

These type of instance contains 3 series of instances
R - Series
storage EBS & NVM SSD
X - Series
storage NVM SSD
Z - Series
Storage NVM SSD


***  Accelerated Computing /GPU ------		Graphics Optimised  (used for gaming etc)
these instances use hardware accelerators, or co-processors, to perform functions, such as floating point number calculations, graphics processing,
 or data pattern matching, more efficiently than is possible in software running on CPUs
These type of instance contains 3 series of instance
F -  Series
These instance offer FPGA h/w
Storage - NVM SSD
P -  Series
Storage - SSB & EBS
G -  Series


- Storage Optimized ------		Low latency 
Storage optimized instances are designed for workloads that require high, sequential read and write access to very large data sets on local storage
ex: NoSQL databases (e.g. Cassandra, MongoDB, Redis), in-memory databases

It has 3 series of instances
D Series
storage SSD
H Series
Storage HDD
I Series 
Storage NVM SSD

Below two type of instance comes new into the market 

- High Memory  --- High RAM  & Nitro system
These instances contains high RAM and runs on nitro system
Nitro system is the type of specialised hypervisor which used for virtualization which used server resources very intelligently 
Also minimize the latency and increase the throughput,also optimise the RAM which improves the performance of RAM 
It has only 1 series of instances
U series

- Previous Generation


Ec2 purchasing option
* On Demand
When we select any ec2 instance it comes with On demand option.
* Dedicated Instance
* Dedicated Host
* Spot Instance 
* Schedule  Reserved Instance
* Reserved Instance

There are 3 ways to pay for Ec2 instnace 
On Demand
Reserved Instance
Spot instance

02240500600





