EC2 Compute

Question 1:
What three attributes are selectable when creating an EBS volume for an EC2 instance?
A. volume type
B. IOPS
C. region
D. CMK
E. ELB
F. EIP


Answer (A,B,D)Question 2:
You have been asked to migrate a 10 GB unencrypted EBS volume to an encrypted volume for security
purposes. What are three key steps required as part of the migration?
A. pause the unencrypted instance
B. create a new encrypted volume of the same size and availability zone
C. create a new encrypted volume of the same size in any availability zone
D. start converter instance
E. shutdown and detach the unencrypted instance


Answer (B,D,E)Question 3:
What is EC2 instance protection?
A. prevents Auto Scaling from selecting specific EC2 instance to be replaced when scaling in
B. prevents Auto Scaling from selecting specific EC2 instance to be replaced when scaling out
C. prevents Auto Scaling from selecting specific EC2 instance for termination when scaling out
D. prevents Auto Scaling from selecting specific EC2 instance for termination when scaling in
E. prevents Auto Scaling from selecting specific EC2 instance for termination when paused
F. prevents Auto Scaling from selecting specific EC2 instance for termination when stopped


Answer (D)Question 4:
What two features are supported with EBS volume Snapshot feature?
A. EBS replication across regions
B. EBS multi-zone replication
C. EBS single region only
D. full snapshot data only
E. unencrypted snapshot only


Answer (A,B)Question 5:
What two resource tags are supported for an EC2 instance?
A. VPC endpoint
B. EIP
C. network interface
D. security group
E. Flow Log


Answer (A,E)Question 6:
What two options are available to alert tenants when an EC2 instance is terminated?
A. SNS
B. CloudTrail
C. Lambda function
D. SQS
E. STS


Answer (A,C)Question 7:
What class of EC2 instance type is recommended for running data analytics?
A. memory optimized
B. compute optimized
C. storage optimized
D. general purpose optimized


Answer (B)Question 8:
What class of EC2 instance type is recommended for database servers?
A. memory optimized
B. compute optimized
C. storage optimized
D. general purpose optimized


Answer (A)Question 9:
What two attributes distinguish each pricing model?
A. reliability
B. amazon service
C. discount
D. performance
E. redundancy


Answer (A,C)Question 10:
What are three standard AWS pricing models?
A. elastic
B. spot
C. reserved
D. dynamic
E. demand


Answer (B,C,E)Question 11:
How is an EBS root volume created when launching an EC2 instance from a new EBS-backed AMI?
A. S3 template
B. original AMI
C. snapshot
D. instance store


Answer (C)Question 12:
What Amazon AWS sources are available for creating an EBS-Backed Linux AMI? (select two)
A. EC2 instance
B. Amazon SMS
C. VM Import/Export
D. EBS Snapshot
E. S3 bucket


Answer (A,D)Question 13:
What is required to prevent an instance from being launched and incurring costs?
A. stop instance
B. terminate instance
C. terminate AMI and de-register instance
D. stop and de-register instance
E. stop, deregister AMI and terminate instance


Answer (E)Question 14:
What is an EBS Snapshot?
A. backup of an EBS root volume and instance data
B. backup of an EC2 instance
C. backup of configuration settings
D. backup of instance store


Answer (A)Question 15:
Where are ELB and Auto-Scaling groups deployed as a unified solution for horizontal scaling?
A. database instances
B. all instances
C. web server instances
D. default VPC only


Answer (C)Question 16:
What feature is supported when attaching or detaching an EBS volume from an EC2 instance?
A. EBS volume can be attached and detached to an EC2 instance in the same region
B. EBS volume can be attached and detached to an EC2 instance that is cross-region
C. EBS volume can only be copied and attached to an EC2 instance that is cross-region
D. EBS volume can only be attached and detached to an EC2 instance in the same Availability Zone


Answer (D)Question 17:
What two statements correctly describe how to add or modify IAM roles to a running EC2 instance?
A. attach an IAM role to an existing EC2 instance from the EC2 console
B. replace an IAM role attached to an existing EC2 instance from the EC2 console
C. attach an IAM role to the user account and relaunch the EC2 instance
D. add the EC2 instance to a group where the role is a member


Answer (A,B)Question 18:
What is the default behavior for an EC2 instance when terminated? (Select two)
A. DeleteOnTermination attribute cannot be modified
B. EBS root device volume and additional attached volumes are deleted immediately
C. EBS data volumes that you attach at launch persist
D. EBS root device volume is automatically deleted when instance terminates


Answer (C,D)Question 19:
How do you launch an EC2 instance after it is terminated? (Select two)
A. launch a new instance using the same AMI
B. reboot instance from CLI
C. launch a new instance from a Snapshot
D. reboot instance from management console
E. contact AWS support to reset


Answer (A,C)Question 20:
What service can automate EBS snapshots (backups) for restoring EBS volumes?
A. CloudWatch event
B. SNS topic
C. CloudTrail
D. Amazon Inspector
E. CloudWatch alarm


Answer (A)Question 21:
What will cause AWS to terminate an EC2 instance on launch? (Select two)
A. security group error
B. number of EC2 instances on AWS account exceeded
C. EBS volume limits exceeded
D. multiple IP addresses assigned to instance
E. unsupported instance type assigned


Answer (B,C)Question 22:
You recently made some configuration changes to an EC2 instance. You then launched a new EC2 instance
from the same AMI however none of the settings were saved. What is the cause of this error?
A. did not save configuration changes to EC2 instance
B. did not save configuration changes to AMI
C. did not create new AMI
D. did not reboot EC2 instance to enable changes


Answer (C)Question 23:
What statements are correct concerning DisableApiTermination attribute? (Select two)
A. cannot enable termination protection for Spot instances
B. termination protection is disabled by default for an EC2 instance
C. termination protection is enabled by default for an EC2 instance
D. can enable termination protection for Spot instances
E. DisableApiTermination attribute supported for EBS-backed instances only


Answer (A,B)Question 24:
What is required to copy an encrypted EBS snapshot cross-account? (Select two)
A. copy the unencrypted EBS snapshot to an S3 bucket
B. distribute the custom key from CloudFront
C. share the custom key for the snapshot with the target account
D. share the encrypted EBS snapshot with the target account
E. share the encrypted EBS snapshots publicly
F. enable root access security on both accounts


Answer (C,D)Question 25:
What three services enable Single-AZ as a default?
A. EC2
B. ELB
C. Auto-Scaling
D. DynamoDB
E. S3


Answer (A,B,C)Question 26:
What AWS service automatically publishes access logs every five minutes?
A. VPC Flow Logs
B. Elastic Load Balancer
C. CloudTrail
D. DNS Route 53


Answer (B)Question 27:
You have developed a web-based application for file sharing that will allow customers to access files.
There are a variety of sizes that include larger .pdf and video files. What two solution stacks could
tenants use for an online file sharing service? (Select two)
A. EC2, ELB, Auto-Scaling, S3
B. Route 53, Auto-Scaling, DynamoDB
C. EC2, Auto-Scaling, RDS
D. CloudFront


Answer (A,D)Question 28:
What infrastructure services are provided to EC2 instances? (Select three)
A. VPN
B. storage
C. compute
D. transport
E. security
F. support


Answer (B,C,D)Question 29:
What steps are required from AWS console to copy an EBS-backed AMI for a database instance cross-
region?
A. create Snapshot of data volume, select Copy, select destination region
B. select Copy EBS-backed AMI option and destination region
C. select copy database volume and destination region
D. create Snapshot of EBS-backed AMI, select Copy Snapshot option, select destination region
E. create Snapshot of Instance-store AMI, select Copy AMI option, select destination region


Answer (D)Question 30:
How is capacity (compute, storage and network speed) managed and assigned to EC2 instances?
A. AMI
B. instance type
C. IOPS
D. Auto-Scaling


Answer (B)Question 31:
What storage type enable permanent attachment of volumes to EC2 instances?
A. S3
B. RDS
C. TDS
D. EBS
E. instance store


Answer (D)Question 32:
What is the recommended method for migrating (copying) an EC2 instance to a different region?
A. terminate instance, select region, copy instance to destination region
B. select AMI associated with EC2 instance and use Copy AMI option
C. stop instance and copy AMI to destination region
D. cross-region copy is not currently supported


Answer (B)Question 33:
What are two attributes that define an EC2 instance type?
A. vCPU
B. license type
C. EBS volume storage
D. IP address
E. Auto-Scaling


Answer (A,C)Question 34:
How is an Amazon Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) assigned?
A. per EC2 instance
B. per Auto-Scaling group
C. per subnet
D. per VPC


Answer (A)Question 35:
What method detects when to replace an EC2 instance that is assigned to an Auto-Scaling group?
A. health check
B. load balancing algorithm
C. EC2 health check
D. not currently supported
E. dynamic path detection
F. Auto-Scaling


Answer (A)Question 36:
What two statements correctly describe Auto-Scaling groups?
A. horizontal scaling of capacity
B. decrease number of instances only
C. EC2 instances are assigned to a group
D. database instances only
E. no support for multiple availability zones


Answer (A,C)Question 37:
What is the default maximum number of Elastic IP addresses assignable per Amazon AWS region?
A. 1
B. 100
C. 5
D. unlimited


Answer (C)Question 38:
How are snapshots for an EBS volume created when it is the root device for an instance?
A. pause instance, unmount volume and snapshot
B. terminate instance and snapshot
C. unencrypt volume and snapshot dynamically
D. stop instance, unmount volume and snapshot


Answer (D)Question 39:
What cloud compute components are configured by tenants and not Amazon AWS support engineers?
(Select three)
A. hypervisor
B. upstream physical switch
C. virtual appliances
D. guest operating system
E. applications and databases
F. RDS


Answer (C,D,E)Question 40:
What three attributes are used to define a launch configuration template for an Auto-Scaling group?
A. instance type
B. private IP address
C. Elastic IP
D. security group
E. AMI


Answer (A,D,E)Question 41:
What three characteristics or limitations differentiate EC2 instance types?
A. VPC only
B. application type
C. EBS volume only
D. virtualization type 
E. AWS service selected



Answer (A,C,D)Question 42:
Select two difference between HVM and PV virtualization types?
A. HVM supports all current generation instance types
B. HVM is similar to bare metal hypervisor architecture
C. PV provides better performance than HVM for most instance types
D. HVM doesn’t support enhanced networking
E. HVM doesn’t support current generation instance types


Answer (A,B)