LIMITS
- IAM user limit is 5000. i.e u can maximum create 5000 users.
- You can create 300 groups per aws account
- You are limited to 1000 IAM roles under aws account
- Default limit of managed policies attached to an IAM role and iam user is 10
- IAM user can be a member of 10 groups.

FEATURES

1. Shared access to your aws accounts.
- we can share access by creating a users.

2. Granullar Permission
-  we can create different permission to different user for different resources
ex. for instance we can give complet access to ec2, s3, redshift while to others we can give read only access

3. Secure access to aws resources for applications that run on amazon ec2
You can use IAM features to secuerly give application that run on ec2 instance, the credentials that they need 
in order to access other aws resources 
ex. for ec2 instace we have attached s3 bucket or RDS then we can restrict not to use these attached resources

4. MFA (Multifactor authentication)
you can add MFA to you accunt.

5. Identify federation
instead of creating user in iam you can use Active Directory or LDAP or any 3 party software such as google(gmail), Facebook 
throuch which we can login

6. Identify information assurance 
who access what resources at what time we can check this
if u use cloudtrail you receive log records that include information about who access what resources in your account.
this information is based on IAM identities 

7. PCI- DSS Complaince 
AWS supports processing, storage and transmission of credit card

8. Evantually Consistent
IAM is highly available. If you do any changes on IAM and save that change, this change must be replicate  across IAM whcih can take some time.
 
- IAM is free to use. 


IAM TERMS
1. Principal
The on who is doing the activity or action on resources.
thhis could be User,role,  application , or federated user (3rd party user).

2. Request
Normally principal send a request 
ex. principal tell to create  a ec2 instance. so this is the request
Normally request includes below things
action , resources , principal , enviornment data, resource data.
ex- when principal send request for creating ec2 instance
here creates new ec2 instance this is the REQUEST
creating is the Action 
ec2 instance is RESOURCE 
the req is sent by PRINCIPAL
Env Data means - includes principals ip address, permissions etc
Resource data meain - which bucket we are using, which region we are using etc. i.e resource related data

3. Authentication
which means it check the  id and password is correct or not. it will authenticate. if its give the proper credentials then 
it forward to authorisation 

4. Autharization
once it check that the user is authenticated then it check what autherization (rights)it have. i.e what resources he can access

5. Action / operation
this is whta pincipal has requested.
i.e if Principal request for creating ec2 instance then creating instance is an action 

6. Resources
on which the action is perform. here instance is resource


You can create a new policy in aws console using one of the following ways
1. JSON -- you can create your own json syntax
2. Visual Editor - u can create policy using this editor in this it will create policy  in json format we dont need to remember JSON syntax
3. IMPORT - You can import the pocliy from existing policy. 


Resourece based policy we can assign to only these resources
- Amazon S3
- Amazon Simple Notification Services (SNS)
- Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)
- Amzon Glacier Voult

For others we need to assign Role Based Policy 

Truseted Account
It is the account from which user will access the other account resources

Trusting Account
This is the Account from whic resources will be access from othe account's user